Thao Vang

CSCI2461

Do you ever feel how you don't have your laptop to carry around since it's heavy and gets in the way? With USB bootable flash driver

it's like your very own pc in your pocket where ever you go it will sure to be bound.

There are several ways to install a USB bootable flash drive.

You could use a tool called rufus to create partitions or another is the fdisk tool.

The most conventient way for me is to download your favorite distros and burn the ISO image to a dvd and run it from there.

You could try it out first by using the live mode feature to see if your distro suites your needs. Once you know you like it, the next

step is to start installing it from the DVD to usb flash drive. IT IS THAT EASY!!!

For me debian is a stable linux distro with great support forum since it also have similar feature as UBUNTU

Here are the steps:

Hardware required: SanDisk USB Flash Drive and Debian Live DVD

1. Insert USB flash drive to pc

2. Change your pc bios to boot into cd/dvd 

3. Insert your debian live cd/dvd into drive

4. Linux boot menue will prompt for options to install

5. Select option to install to pc

6. You will see your hard drive and usb flash drive; for me it shows SanDisk as my protable flash drive, it might be different for you

7. Select your usb flash drive to install

8. Linux will ask to auto partition or manual partition usb flash drive

9. Select the option to install all directories into one partition 

10. Select option to continue and format the drive and continue to install

11. Once it start to install it will ask for either to select the current versions of applications from dvd/cd or download and update from the internet

For now just select install from dvd/cd

12. Once install complete it will ask to enter a new password for user id root (enter your new password)

13. It will again ask for a new user name and password (enter your new name and password)

14. Continue to install and it will ask for domain, accept default (you can change it later)

15. Once install complete, log on to the new pc AND WELCOME TO LINUX COMMUNITIES!!!
